---
title: Maturity offsetting
sidebar_position: 2
---

:::note Path
**Finance > Mat. Values > Procedures > Maturity offsetting**

Note:   
For everything not detailed in this document on the common operation of forms, please refer to the following link [Custom features, buttons, and common fields](/docs/guide/common).

:::

---

This procedure, similar to the analogous *Fast Compensation* (the latter has been simplified and, in some ways, is therefore preferable), presents a search form in which one can also search for and review the maneuvers performed (unlike the *Fast Compensation*).

To perform an compensation, it is therefore necessary to press the **New** button to proceed.

The first mandatory field to be set is the **Compensation type**, which can be selected via the combo box that refers to the appropriate table.

In this table, in addition to the usual code and description of the type in question, a specific numbering and other parameters can be configured, which are fundamental when the compensation concerns not only open mat. values but also ledger balances (such as a customer and vendor position for the same entity).  
Additionally, it is mandatory to select one of the three possible types of compensation from the corresponding combo box:
- Invoices - credit notes 
- Customer - vendor: (a typology that typically leads to a compensation of ledger balances)
- Payments - documents: used to close open maturity positions in the face of collections or advance payments


The parameters to be set are those of the ledger record template that will be used in the ledger entry automatically generated by the offset and any accounts to be used to generate active or passive allowances (in cases where one wants to manage a residual balance against amounts that do not perfectly coincide).

The procedure for selecting mat. values is very similar to the *Fast Compensation*, and therefore, please refer to the relevant instructions.

Here too, there are hidden "drawers" (side tabs) where the mat. values are also displayed (unlike the analogous procedure), and once selected (with a double click or the appropriate ribbon bar button), they are returned to the main grids of the form to proceed with the offset maneuver.

ATTENTION, the maneuver is finalized when it is accounted for. The accounting button (which will only act on closing mat. values if the compensation type does not provide for the accounting part) is enabled when the values of the mat. values to be offset coincide. Therefore, if the value (or the residual) of the mat. values to be offset does not match, it is necessary to modify the value of the maturity in the **Value** column, in such a way that the maturity will be closed for compensation only for that value (for example, a maturity of 2,000 is offset only for 1,000, which is the value of the opposite maturity) and will thus remain open for the residual.  
Verify that the **Difference** field at the bottom of the form goes to zero.

By pressing the accounting button (with the possibility of executing a restore), payments will be generated in the next tab (***Accounting***), closing the mat. values and, if the type provides for it, the offset accounting entries.