---
title: Release Notes Version 706 
sidebar_position: 1
last_update:
  date: 02/08/2024
---

## ARM - Application Resource Manager

### Bizlink

#### Web API Controller

New functionalities have been released for the WEBAPI of already exposed objects as well as new exposed objects. The usage is documented in the dedicated integration documentation in the academy.

PurchaseOrdersPublicController – Export  
PurchaseDeliveryNotesPublicController – Export  
PurchaseDemandsPublicController – Import/Export  
PurchaseGoodsReceiptListPublicController – Import/Export  
PurchaseInvoicesPublicController – Import/Export/WarehousePosting/ValorizationFromPurchaseDeliveryNotes/ValorizationFromSubcontractorReturns  
PurchaseOffersPublicController – Import/Export  
PurchasePriceListsPublicController – Import/Export  
SalesOffersPublicController – Import/Export  
SalesPriceListsPublicController – Import/Export  
ItemsAvailabilityPublicController – GetItemsAvailability/GetItemsAvailabilityDetailsAsync  
WorkReportsPublicController – Import/Export  
ProjectsPublicController – Import/Export  
OpenTasksPublicController – Import/Export  
PlannedTasksPublicController - Import/Export  
CommonCRMPublicController – ExportContacts/ImportContacts  

## Fluentis ERP

### Arm – Various Modules 

#### Restrictions 

In Arm, the definition of user groups now allows for a series of standard restrictions on the sales area, purchasing area, projects, and tickets. Within Fluentis, the 'agents registry' has been modified, along with the 'agents' grid in the customer registry, the 'contact persons' tab for contacts, and the CRM contact to allow for the configuration of document visibility (only their own or all).

### FI - Finance and Accounting	 

#### General Ledger 

**Incoming Sdi documents**  
New procedure for generating professional fees. Fluentis checks if the sdi file contains withholdings and informs about the possibility of using the new procedure. Viewing of import settings data within the agents registry.

**Purchase Invoices Accounting**    
New parameter to manage the VAT rate to be used for reversing the gift amount.

### CO - Controlling	 

**Responsibility centers**  
Added a field linking to the employee.

### PM - Project Management	 

#### Interventions

**Service Activities**  
In interventions, the ability to rollback all activities generated by the intervention has been introduced, reverting the intervention status to 'Inserted'.

### MES - Manufacturing Execution System

#### Production Order

**Picking List**  
The 'Material Notes' column has been added to the list of 'Materials' coming from the material notes of the 'Production Order'. 

#### Projects

**Projects**  
In the detail tab of project lines, the layout has been modified for the unit of measure, quantity, and price, properly managing decimals for the price field (#TT01384/24).

### Projects SAL  

**Project SAL**  
In the detail lines of a project SAL processing, the 'Item' and 'Description' fields have been added to the grid, derived from the line of the document from which the SAL was calculated (#TT01278/24).  

A new code PRCC007 - Costs from Purchase Invoices has been introduced. (#TT01279/24). Thus, the logic in the SAL for purchase invoices becomes the following:  
PRCC005            Costs from Non-Posted Purchase Invoices  --> only invoices with the posted flag turned off  
PRCC006            Extra Costs from Non-Posted Purchase Invoice Expenses  --> only invoices with the posted flag turned off  
PRCC007            Costs from Purchase Invoices             --> all invoices, regardless of whether posted  
PRCC008            Extra Costs from Purchase Invoice Expenses --> all invoices, regardless of whether posted  

### SCM – Supply Chain Management

#### Purchase Invoice

**Importing Purchase Invoices**  
In the procedure for 'Importing purchase invoices from SDI,' delivery notes (DDT) and/or supplier orders reported in the XML file are automatically linked. If the automatic matching fails, the form for manual matching by the user opens, proposing possible DDT or orders for matching.

#### SCS – Subcontractor Management

**Subcontractor Order**  
A new parameter for 'Proposed Material Data' has been implemented, which maintains materials coming from production for external work phases or the work level of the bill of materials. Thus, when changing the quantities to be produced in the production order or planned they are checked and updated along with the linked work order quantities, signaling various discrepancies.

#### SD – All Documents

**Discounts**  
The ability to enter discounts directly in the item grid has been implemented. To do this, the 'Enable simplified discount widget' parameter must be activated in the parameters of the various modules in the Sales area and the discount type must be entered in the relevant document type (Order Type, DDT Type, Invoice Type, Offer Type). With these two imports, it is possible to calculate discounts simply by writing 50+10+5 in the specific discount column for items, where 3 discount rows will be entered in the discount grid all with the same discount type but with increasing priority to calculate the 50 discount and then cascading the 10 discount and then cascading the 5 discount. To apply surcharges, the sign - is used, and to apply a value discount, the symbol # is used after the number (5# means 5 euros and not 5%). A 'Final Discounts' column has also been implemented which displays (cannot be modified) the final item discounts entered in the 'Summaries' tab of the document.

### Shared

### Configuration and Tables	

**Item prototypes**  
The import and export of production cycle phases have been implemented.

### WM - Warehouse Management

#### Warehouse

**Inventory book**  
A new cumulative print procedure for the reports that make up the inventory book has been implemented, stored in the integrated document management system of Fluentis.