---
title: Configuration
sidebar_position: 1
---

The configuration area is mainly composed of two elements: **Tables** and **Parameters**.

Both are grouped by functional area, along with a group of general tables and parameters (which are necessary regardless of the area of interest).

:::danger[Warning]
Failure to manage this basic data may prevent the effective use of the ERP in the relevant area.
:::

**TABLES**: contain essential base data needed for the creation of other data or documents. For example, the Invoice Types table contains different invoice categories. To create a new invoice, the type must first be selected from the appropriate combo box.

**PARAMETERS**: generally contain options or default data for processing procedures or automatic data creation. Failure to manage them, especially in some cases where a default parameter is not saved, may prevent the correct functioning of the related procedure.

:::important[**Fast Start**]
After installing Fluentis ERP, before starting to use it, you can initialize a [**fully ready-to-use *FastStart* environment**](/docs/guide/fast-start).

See the link for a list of **tables** and **parameters** populated by this procedure.

A key element for launching Fast Start is the [**Chart of Accounts**](/docs/erp-home/registers/accounting/analytic-chart-of-accounts) (administrative area).

Running the Fast Start procedure will create a standard chart of accounts, which can still be integrated and modified (e.g., updating account descriptions or deleting some accounts—provided they are not already used in other data generated by the procedure, such as accounting entries or financial statement reclassification models). 

If the generated chart of accounts is completely unsuitable for the company using Fluentis, it is advisable to proceed with a manual configuration of tables and parameters related to the functional areas of interest, as well as the manual creation or import of the desired chart of accounts. The link above includes a **checklist** for a detailed review of the most important tables.
:::
