---
title: Unpaid
sidebar_position: 4
---

The unpaid invoice search form 

- can be found in Treasury > Portfolio Effects > Effects > Unpaid (Insoluti)

- allows the user to search for previously issued unpaid invoices in order to view, modify, and possibly delete them.

From this form, it is also possible to manually enter a new unpaid invoice using the **New** button.


## Ribbon Bar Buttons

> - **Search (Ricerca):** Button to search for unpaid invoices according to the search filters set in the header of the form.
> - **New (Nuovo):** Calls the form to enter a new unpaid invoice.
> - **Edit (Modifica):** Allows editing of a previously entered unpaid invoice.
> - **View (Visualizzazione):** Allows viewing of a previously entered unpaid invoice.
> - **Delete (Elimina):** Deletes a previously entered unpaid invoice.
> - **Multiple unpaid invoice creation (Creazione multipla insoluti):** Executes the command to create more than one unpaid invoice simultaneously.

> Executing **Reports** (*Preview* or *Print Report*) launches, regarding the unpaid invoices selected with the mouse (holding Ctrl allows the selection of multiple unpaid invoices simultaneously), the corresponding print available in the [**prints menu (menu stampe)**](/docs/treasury/bills-holding/reports/print-unpaid-list) of the module.

> - *Unpaid (Insoluti):* Highlights of unpaid effects with their respective references and amounts, increased by any interests and fees.
> - *Reminder Letter (Lettera di sollecito):* Letter addressed to the debtor that highlights the unpaid effects and urges payment.


## Search Filters

- **Types of Effects (Tipi Effetti):** Filters based on the type of effect that was entered in the unpaid invoice during creation, such as Bank Receipt, Bill of Exchange, etc.
- **Debtor (Debitore):** Filter related to the ***Debtor*** field present within the effect.
- **From / To / Date of Unpaid Invoice (DA / A / data insoluto) / Due Date (Data scadenza) / Issue Date (Data emissione) / Number (Numero):** Related to the corresponding fields present within the unpaid invoice, particularly concerning the creation date of the unpaid invoice, the due date of the installment that reopens with the unpaid invoice, the issue date of the effect that went unpaid, and the number of the unpaid effect.
- **Unpaid Status (Stato insoluto):** Filter related to the *Unpaid Status* present within the unpaid invoice, which is automatically modified depending on the procedures that have been carried out. For example, it starts as Unpaid, then becomes Collected, or a debit note is issued, etc.
- **Filter Flag (Flag di filtro):** By default, *All* is active, but it can be changed by selecting various search conditions that, if activated simultaneously, will broaden the search base, such as printed + accounted + NOT printed..... There is also an additional expandable section to filter unpaid invoices coming from effects generated by installments or invoices with respective references of date/number. This helps the search as the two procedures for creating the effect are alternative to each other.

## Results Grid

This form presents the same fields present in the filters detailed above.

It also displays 
- the amount of the unpaid effect and **Bank Expenses** present in the header of the unpaid invoice that is recharged to the customer and accounted for.
- the **Date** and **Number** related to the **Import Unpaid**.
- the **Invoice number** that generated the effect that went unpaid.
- the **Presenting Bank (Banca di presentazione)** of the unpaid effect.