---
title: MPS Parameters
sidebar_position: 3
---

MPS Parameters window can be opened through the following path Home > Parameters > Production > MPS Parameters. Through this window it is possible to set all parameters regarding the production job order management and the way in which steps after job orders generation have to be managed.

In the “Method of job order generation” section, the Job order type (Mono/multiproduct), suggested in the MPS Definition Parameters tab, has to be set . While generating the job order from the MPS Definition, it is possible to edit this setting as well as the one related to the following combo called “Grouping Products for”, through which it is possible to indicate how the items must be grouped in the same mono/multiproduct job order.


 1. If the job order type is Monoproduct, the only possible grouping type is the “Grouping for Item” one: this management type enables the system to automatically generate a series of monoproduct job orders by selecting a list of customers' orders lines coming from “Sales Forecast”, “Production Main Plan” or “Sub-stocks”. Every job order that is generated has the total sum of the amounts requested for the same item. The end date of a grouped job order always coincides to the one of the requirement closest to the date in which the elaboration is launched.
 2. If the job order type is Multiproduct, the groupings can be made by customer, sales job order, customer/job order. These groupings enable the user to insert in the same Multiproduct job order several items coming from customer order lines related to the same customer, to the same sales job order or to the same sales job order of the same customer. In the “Generation of Job order from” section, the user, by the means of the dedicated flags, can set if the job order must be generated from Sales Order  or from a forecast plan (Sales Forecast, Production Main Plan). These parameters can be edited from the MPS definition window. In case that the Production job order is generated from the Forecast Plan, it must be specified if the job order should be generated with a weekly or monthly term.
 3. The “Compute qty. According to item LeadTime” flag is activated in case that the user does not want to use working cycles in order to determine the duration of a production job order; in this case, in order to determine the duration of the job order, the user can refer to the  “Production Lead Time”  field, within the MRP parameters of the item. The “Last number of the inserted job order” field shows the last progressive number of the production job order inserted.

The “Automatic generation of job order from sales order” flag, if active, makes the procedure automatically create the production job order as soon as a sales order line is inserted. In this case, the job order is created in the “Not examined” status. Generally it is activated when the “MRP” procedure (and not the “General Schedule”) is used to schedule.

The “Job Order automatic Issue” flag, if active, makes the procedure automatically create the production job order as soon as the consolidation of an annual Sales forecast is made. Even in this case, the job order is created with the “Not examined” status.

 “Update estimated delivery date” flag, if active, shows the “Previewed Delivery date” automatically updated. The delivery refers to the line of the sales order linked to the production job order line whose “estimated end date” is manually modified.

The flags “Consider availabilities from” Subcontracting, Purchases, Sales, Production, Warehouse, enable the user to set the consideration of the availability of the finished products while generating a production job order.

The “Warehouses of job order scheduling” grid, refers to the simple visualization of the list of warehouses, whose availability should be controlled while generating a job order. This list is set in the mask called “Calculate Availability” , within the Utilities.

In the “Scheduling last date” section, it is possible to find some summary data related to the last scheduling (time of beginning, number of errors, end hour, progressive scheduling).

The “First Day of the week visualized in the factory calendar” enables the user to insert the day that is identified as the first one of the work week of the factory calendar.

In the “Job order colors” it is possible to set the background and the text colors of job orders according to their status (not examined, launched etc.).

In the “Automatic generation of production flow” section, that depends on the activation of the related flag, the user can activate the “Scheduling” flag that enables the same one to view  as already scheduled those job orders just generated by the MSP definition. The activation of the “Scheduling” flag enables the activation of the “Release” flag that lets the user decide if the scheduled purchase, production and/or subcontracting job orders have to be automatically released after the automatic scheduling. In this case, regarding Production Planned orders, the user can activate the “Release ex.” Flag that directly generates executive production orders, avoiding the “Works Order Release” procedure.

Finally, by activating the “Release ex,” flag the user can decide to activate the “Signal” and the “Eliminate mat. Without stock” flags. Their task is, regarding the generated production order, the opening/closing of the order steps signal is automatically inserted, recorded in the warehouse and the materials that should be used but do not have available stock are eliminated by the “Materials of the Production Signal” tab belonging to the phase during which the materials are unloaded.

Hereinafter the list of actions that can be performed through the RIBBON BAR:



| Function | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Save | Button to save the changes on MPS Parameters. |






