---
title: Matrices 
sidebar_position: 18
---

This tab is activated only if a [Configuration](/docs/configurations/tables/CPQ/principal-configurations) has been set in the Article header.           
It is managed when it is necessary to handle matrices for the combination of an item's attributes and allows defining the possible combinations for the item.        
First, it is necessary to assign a **Code** and a **[Matrix Definition](/docs/configurations/tables/CPQ/matrices-definition)** (which contains the set of attributes that will compose the matrix); based on the selected definition, the valid [Extra Data](/docs/configurations/utility/extra-data/extradata/search-extradata) for this matrix can be selected in the underlying tabs.

Moving to the *Allowed dimension values* section, the next step is to select, one by one, the Extra Data from the **Atribute** combo box. Once the attribute is selected, the *available results* grid displays the values of the Extra Data (for example, if we select the attribute Size, the grid will show the values of the Extra Data: XS, S, M, L, XL, etc.). Once the values of the attribute we want to make valid for this matrix are selected, they need to be dragged into the *Allowed Values* grid to indicate that those values will be valid for the matrix combinations.        
Once the valid values for each attribute are chosen, new tabs will automatically appear, one for each supporting matrix and a tab for the complete matrix, which will merge the various supporting matrices to create a single one with all possible combinations.        
In the tabs generated by the supporting matrices, it is necessary to flag the valid value combinations. For each combination, the flag should only be entered if it is valid.        
In the *Complete stub* tab, on the other hand, a unique matrix is generated with all the valid combinations set in the previous tab.      
The matrix can now be used in the objects for which it has been configured.