---
title: Search orders
sidebar_position: 1
---

The form is opened through the path **Sales > Orders > Search orders (Vendite > Ordini > Ricerca Ordini)**.

For an explanation of the functionalities common to sales documents, refer to the section [Sales (Vendite)](/docs/sales/sales-intro).

#### Specific Buttons       
> - **Properties**: this button allows you to open the **Execution status** form, within which you can view the fulfillment status of the various item lines. For each line, you'll see the **Ordered quantity**, the **Confirmed Quantity** (produced), and the possible **Residual quantity**. In case the line has been fulfilled, by selecting it and also selecting the parameters from the *Areas* section, you will be able to view the connected fulfillment document (DDT or invoice) in the grid below.
> - **[DDT Fulfillment (Evasione DDT)](/docs/sales/sales-delivery-notes/insert-delivery-notes/sales-dn)**: this procedure allows for the creation of a DDT directly from one or more customer orders; to use this procedure, you must first enter the desired DDT Type in the table of [Sales Order Types (Tipi ordini di vendita)](/docs/configurations/tables/sales/sales-order-types). DDTs can only be created using this automatic procedure if the order is printed and confirmed. Once the fulfillment button is clicked, the system will proceed to create the DDT (which can be viewed and modified by going to the [Sales DDT Search (Ricerca DDT di vendita)](/docs/sales/sales-delivery-notes/insert-delivery-notes/search-sales-dn) window) and the order will automatically change its status to Fulfilled, partially fulfilled, or forcefully fulfilled. This procedure can also be executed from the [Header (Testata)](/docs/sales/sales-delivery-notes/insert-delivery-notes/sales-dn) of the DDT.  
> - **[Invoice Fulfillment (Evasione fatture)](/docs/sales/sales-invoices/invoicing/sales-invoice)**: this procedure allows for the creation of an invoice directly from one or more customer orders; to use this procedure, you must first enter the desired Invoice Type in the table of [Sales Order Types (Tipi ordini di vendita)](/docs/configurations/tables/sales/sales-order-types). Invoices can only be created with this automatic procedure if the order is printed and confirmed. Once the fulfillment button is clicked, the system will proceed to create the invoice (which can be viewed and modified by going to the [Sales Invoice Search (Ricerca fatture di vendita)](/docs/sales/sales-invoices/invoicing/search-sales-invoices) window), and the order will automatically change its status to Fulfilled, partially fulfilled, or forcefully fulfilled. This procedure is also present in the [Header (Testata)](/docs/sales/sales-invoices/invoicing/sales-invoice) of the invoice.      
> - **[Create Supplier Orders (Creazione ordini fornitori)](/docs/purchase/purchase-orders/procedures/create-purchase-orders-from-purchase-requests)**: this procedure allows you to create a supplier order starting from one or more customer orders, having first indicated the type of supplier order to be created in the table of [Customer Order Types (Tipi ordini clienti)](/docs/configurations/tables/sales/sales-order-types). Once the procedure is launched, the created supplier order can be viewed and modified by going to the [Supplier Search orders (Ricerca ordini fornitori)](/docs/purchase/purchase-orders/insert-purchase-orders/search-purchase-orders) screen. To function properly, all items in the document must have a Preferred Supplier in their registry, which will be the holder of the Supplier Order. In the [Purchase Order Grouping Parameters (Parametri raggruppamento ordini di acquisto)](/docs/configurations/parameters/purchase/order-grouping), you can choose which grouping criteria to use for the creation of orders. This procedure is also available in the purchasing module.          
> - **Tools > Recalculate Agent Commissions (Strumenti > Ricalcola provvigioni agenti)**: this procedure allows for a recalculation of the commissions of the Agents within the selected document; this operation is recommended in cases where the commissions have been modified after the document was created.      
> - **Tools > Update Prices (Strumenti > Aggiorna prezzi)**: clicking this button opens a parameter form where you decide whether to update prices by checking valid price lists as of the document date or valid price lists as of the expected delivery date of the item; another parameter will ask whether to modify prices only for non-fulfilled lines or also for partially fulfilled lines, and another parameter will ask whether to also update lines with Manual Price; the procedure recalculates the prices of the items in the order based on the entered parameters, considering all discounts and the selected tier for the line. In case the destination document of the procedure has price lists in the header, it will always have priority.