---
title: Introduction 
sidebar_position: 1
---

The module is located in the **Purchasing > Purchase Invoices** area.

Purchase invoices are fiscal documents issued by suppliers in exchange for the supply of goods or services to the company and represent the basis for the accounting registration and payment of suppliers. These invoices contain information such as supplier details, descriptions of the goods or services purchased, quantities, prices, payment conditions, and any references to purchase orders or delivery notes (DDT).

### **Operational Flow**

Purchase invoices can be entered manually or automatically generated by fulfilling existing documents, such as:

- **Purchase orders**: the invoice can be automatically generated from the fulfillment of one or more purchase orders by clicking the [Fulfillment from order](/docs/purchase/purchase-invoices/insert-purchase-invoice/purchase-invoice) button within a new invoice.   
- **Purchase delivery note**: fulfillment from DDT can be done either from within the invoice using the *D.N. execution* button or from the [Valorization of Purchase DDT](/docs/purchase/purchase-invoices/procedures/purchase-delivery-note-valorization) procedure, which also allows for the restoration of operations. 
- **Work return**: the *Return delivery notes valorization* procedure allows for generating the invoice by fulfilling one or more work returns.   
- **Good Reception**: the invoice can also be created from a *Receipt List* through the [Create invoices from Goods Receipt](/docs/purchase/purchase-invoices/procedures/create-purchase-invoices-from-goods-receipt).    

The management of invoices is closely integrated with the warehouse and DDT, allowing for the automatic loading of items and generating invoices by grouping one or more DDTs according to needs. The automatic accounting of invoices then updates the accounting and financial records, ensuring consistency with the company balance sheet.


### **Main Features**

- Management of multiple types of invoices and numbering: Fluentis allows for classifying and filtering invoices based on their commercial nature, ensuring optimized management of different supply flows.
- Prices and discounts from price lists: The system allows for automatically retrieving prices and discounts from supplier price lists, reducing errors and speeding up the invoicing process.
- Entry of expenses and notes: Invoices can include expenses or discounts related to the goods removed from the warehouse, and each item can have specific notes for greater customization of the invoice.
- Uncoded items and variants: It is possible to enter uncoded items in the invoice by only providing a description, as well as managing item variants with additional attributes.
- Viewing and modifying deadlines: In the invoice summary, it is possible to view payment and due details, with options to modify, recalculate, or group them flexibly.
- Lot and warehouse management: batch codes and serial numbers can be coded automatically or manually. 
- Customizable printing: Fluentis allows for printing invoices with customizable layouts, including all required commercial and accounting details.

### **Settings**

Before using the module, the following parameters and tables must be filled out: 
> - [Numbering](/docs/configurations/tables/fluentis-numerations)    
> - [Purchase turnover](/docs/configurations/tables/purchase/purchase-turnover/)
> - [Types of purchase invoices](/docs/configurations/tables/purchase/purchase-invoices-type)
> - [Purchase invoice parameters](/docs/configurations/parameters/purchase/purchase-invoices-parameters)
> - [Purchase invoice grouping parameters](/docs/configurations/parameters/purchase/invoice-grouping/)