---
title: Reports
sidebar_position: 6
---

Several standard **Reports** are available. To view a preview of each print, you need to set the desired filters and press the *Preview* button on the toolbar. This operation will display the print on the screen without changing the document status. If you need to proceed with paper printing or save it as a file, you should click the *Print Report* button instead.

### Purchase Invoice Print 

This report is used to mass print the purchase invoices already entered into the system, according to the filters specified in the initial form. The first choice requested is between *Temporary* and *Definitive* print: the difference between the two types is that the temporary one has no effect on the status of the invoice, while the final paper or digital print changes the document to *Controled* status.   
The first filters presented are related to the header information of the documents, such as the *Invoice type*, *Document Number*, *Supplier*, and *Project*.   
In the *Advance search* group box, you can check the invoice statuses to filter.   
In the *ITEM* group box, you can filter not only by the item code but also by other information related to the lines of the document body, such as the *Bar Code*, *Item description*, or whether there is a linked project associated with the item line.

With this print, each invoice is laid out separately, each with the following sections:
- Header with Logo and company information
- Invoice information (type, number, date, etc.)
- Supplier information (VAT number, payment terms, etc.)
- Invoice details (item code, quantity, price, etc.)
- Invoice summary (total goods, expenses, total tax, etc.)

### Purchase Invoice List

With this print, it is possible to print a list of the invoices entered into the system.    
The presented filters are the same as those of the previous print, with the addition of the option to select a *Ordering* of the displayed invoices, choosing between *Supplier*, *Invoice no.*, and *Invoice type*.

The print shows the details of the individual invoice lines, with indications regarding the quantities and the value of the various items contained in the invoice.

### Purchase Turnover

The report analyzes the purchase turnover generated by all the [Invoice Types](/docs/configurations/tables/purchase/purchase-invoices-type/) with the *In statistic* flag active, showing the value of the turnover and the percentage impact on the total of each individual printed item line.        
In the initial form, some filters related to the header of the documents to be extracted are displayed, similar to those of the reports already analyzed, but there are some specific options for this report.   
In the *Options* group box, there are some flags that allow you to display certain data and include or exclude certain types of item lines in the calculation: checking the *Quantity* option will show both the value and the quantities of the individual lines in the print; *Only codified items* ensures that the print only considers coded item lines, while *Also items-charges* includes expense lines in the calculations.   
The combo box *Sort modality* allows you to choose the order in which the data will be displayed among: the *Description*, the *Code*, or the amount of the *Invoiced*.   
Finally, in the *Grouping* grid, you can set the hierarchical groupings in which the print should be displayed. To populate the table, simply select the desired grouping in the *Properties* table and drag it to the groupings table. If you wish to clear the groupings table, simply press the *Clear Grouping* button on the toolbar.

### CONAI Reports

The **CONAI** declaration document is a module that Italian companies must fill out to declare the data regarding the packaging they place on the market. This document is essential for calculating the CONAI environmental contribution, which is a cost that companies must pay to support recycling and waste collection for packaging.    

This print features the filters that have already been presented in the other prints, plus some new ones: in addition, it is possible to filter by *Material type*, *Recycle partner type*, *Electronic invoice status*; it is also possible to group the results by *Material*, *Supplier*, or *ITEM*.    

The document includes several sections:
- Reference period
- Personal data
- Weight of packaging
- Environmental contribution
- Exemption

For more details on this topic, refer to the articles: [Preview and Print](/docs/guide/common/operations-with-data/reports)