---
title: Vacation / Leave Request
sidebar_position: 4
---

The Leave/Permission request allows the user to directly request days or hours of leave, permissions, or sickness from Fluentis. The information required to be entered by the user includes:

**From date/To date (Da data/A data)**: the period of time, in days and hours, for which the request is to be made is entered; by leaving 00:00 as the start and end time, during the activity declaration generation phase, the configured start and end times in the resource's shift will be used; 

**Asset**: the resource of the user accessing Fluentis is proposed; 

**Reason**: contains the list of absence causes configured for the company. 

**Managed**: flag indicating whether the request has already been handled. It can be enabled manually or at the end of the procedure performed with the button "Confirm Period (Conferma Periodo)"

**Creation date**: this is the date of creation of the request; 

**User who created (Utente di creazione)**: contains the user who created the request and proposes the same user accessing the system;

**Manager**: list of users from which to select the manager figure for the resource; this data is not mandatory;

**Team Leader**: list of users from which to select the team leader figure for the resource; this data is not mandatory;

**Email**: the email of the user making the request is proposed; 

**Email CC**: email address that will be included in cc in the automated approval email for the request; if selected team leader and/or manager, their respective emails will be included in cc; 

**Subject**: description of the request; 

**Note**: it is possible to further detail the request;

**Results**: any results if the request is processed through a workflow (e.g., confirmed, canceled, reason for cancellation, etc.)

In the ribbon bar, the following buttons are present:

**Grant Off Period**: clicking the button will open the screen to enter the reference project, activity category, and the flag to Create a leave period in the activity declaration with the data just entered. A notification can be sent via email to the relevant resource. At the end of the procedure, it will enable the "Managed" flag.

**Rollback Period**: allows deleting the activities generated by the confirm period and restoring the Managed flag.

**Open resource calendar**: Opens the calendar view that allows selecting different resources and evaluating the existing appointments.

Possible scenarios related to Confirm period with overlaps:

- the leave request already has the "Managed" flag enabled: a request will be made "Request already managed, do you want to proceed again?" 
Responding no will block the entire process. 
Responding yes will re-enter the leave activity declarations and overwrite those generated previously by the leave request (if present).

- the leave request has the "Managed" flag disabled but there are other activity declarations in the same period: 
"The activities overlap: *activity detail* - *leave* Do you want to continue?"

Responding Yes: all activity declarations for the requested leave period will be generated.

Responding No: only the activity declarations for the days without other activity declarations present will be generated.

If there is even one activity declaration for a partial working hour in the day, the day will still be skipped, and no leave will be entered.