---
title: Matrix Instance 
sidebar_position: 4
---

By opening this table, you access the search mask for previously coded matrices and the starting point for creating new ones.        
When creating a matrix instance, the first step is to assign a **unique identification code (Codice univoco identificativo)** and **[Matrix Definition](/docs/configurations/tables/CPQ/matrices-definition)**; based on the definition selected, in the tabs below it will be possible to select only the valid [Extra Data](/docs/configurations/utility/extra-data/extradata/search-extradata) for this matrix.

Moving to the *Allowed dimension values* section, the next step is to select, one by one, the Extra Data from the **Atribute** combo box. Once the attribute is selected, the *available results* grid displays the values of the Extra Data (for example, if we select the Size attribute, the grid will show the Extra Data values: XS, S, M, L, XL, etc.). After selecting the attribute values that we want to make valid for this matrix, it is necessary to drag them into the *Allowed Values* grid to indicate that those values will be valid for the matrix combinations.        
Once the valid values for each attribute are chosen, new tabs will automatically appear, one for each supporting matrix and one tab for the complete matrix, which will combine the various supporting matrices into a single one with all possible combinations.        
In the tabs generated by the supporting matrices, it is necessary to check the valid value combinations. For each combination, the flag should be entered only if it is valid.        
In the *Complete stub* tab, however, a unique matrix is generated with all the valid combinations set in the previous tab.      
The matrix can now be used in the objects for which it was configured.