---
title: Forecast
sidebar_position: 4
---

Through this tab it is possible to filter the Sales Forecast or Master Production Schedule lines, that user wants to analyze by MPS Definition procedure, using filters per item and variant.

The Sales Forecast lines, that can be viewed through this tab, have to fullfil the following conditions:

- the annual sales forecast should have the 'Consolidated' status;

- the annual sales forecast should have been generated through a valid version;

- no Production Job Orders should have still been generated by the forecast line;

- no Production Job Orders should have been generated by the Master Production Schedule lines, that user can view through this tab.

The tab consists of a filter area and a results grid.

RIBBON BAR: it represents the Form Menu, that is the area in which it is possible to perform actions linked to the procedure in use. The list of features is the following:



| Function | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| Search | Button to apply search filters within database of sales forecast lines and of master production schedule, that fulfill the conditions complying with the requirements stated at the beginning of the 5.3 section. |
| Consider per Job Order | It refers to the procedure to move the lines selected in the grid of 'Summary' tab. |

FILTER AREA: The filter area contains the list of the possible data types thanks to which it is possible to perform a selction, a research on the total items, which fulfill the selection criteria already preset by window code and listed into the previous paragraph. Typically Filters have 'AND' condition and it is possible to specify more filter criteria at the same time. The user can use filter per item class, code, description and variant.

RESULT GRID: Through the grid of result it is possible to view the list of items, which correspond to the filter data above mentioned. After having specified the values through which it is possible to obtain an Order lines search, the user, by clicking on Search button of the related Ribbon, will obtain the desired lines list on the result grid.

The result grid data concern item class, code and description, sales forecast year, month or week number of sales forecast, production job order generation date, start/end forecast dates (e.g. if forecast has been set according to the month of May, the start date will be 05/01 and the end date will be 05/31), quantity related to the single forecast line, customer account, detail account and description related to the sales forecast line (if available).

At the bottom of the window there is a grid, that enables the user to set the sales orders types to be considered together with quantities in sales forecasts, so that the job order creation procedure generates the production job order with the same quantity as the higher, smaller or amout of present quantities for the same item in the sales order line and/or production forecast or master schedule.

Lastly, it is possible to set the month end scheduling, that is necessary to view only the sales forecast into grid up to the indicated date and to view also the production job order type to be generated.






